The visualization shows education indicators for different groups of children at the age of 12. Children are grouped by their gender, location and by other individual or household circumstances, based on information collected earlier in their lives. Since information is available at the same ages on two cohorts growing up in the same communities but born 7 years apart, the charts show how circumstances have changed for the cohorts between 2006 and 2013. The data has been collected in what was the old state of Andhra Pradesh, and which are now the new states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.

97% of 12 year olds were reported as enrolled in school in 2013.Those most likely to be enrolled in school were from households with higher material wealth, with higher maternal education levels and from the other castes group. Between the cohorts the enrolment rate has increased by 8 percentage points, which has narrowed some disparities in enrolment levels. Enrolment in private schools at age 12 has increased between the cohorts, though extra tuition levels have fallen. The increase in private sector enrolment has been fastest for boys, for children in households with higher wealth and maternal education levels, and for the other caste group, meaning that inequalities between groups of children widened.

There are marked differences in children’s performance on a simple maths test at age 12, with children in urban areas, from other caste group, children from households with highest wealth and maternal education levels scoring better on the test. Girls and boys scored the same. Children in private schooling scored better on the test, but since private schools also have more advantaged pupils, this does not mean they necessarily generated higher learning levels. Despite rising enrolment, there is concerning evidence that the younger cohort scored less well on a simple maths test than did the older cohort. 

For further information, refer to the report on the <a href='http://www.younglives.org.uk/content/education-and-learning-preliminary-findings-round-4-india' target='_blank'>Young Lives website</a>.
