The visualization shows education indicators for different groups of children at the age of 12. Children are grouped by their gender, location and by other individual or household circumstances, based on information collected earlier in their lives. Since information is available at the same ages on two cohorts growing up in the same communities but born 7 years apart, the charts show how circumstances have changed for the cohorts between 2006 and 2013.

98% of 12 year olds were reported as enrolled in school in 2013, but it is lower for minority ethnic groups and for children in households with lowest caregiver education (the caregiver is usually the mother). Average grade attainment is highest for children from households with highest levels of caregiver education. The average grade the children were attended by 12 years has increased between the cohorts, with marked improvements for children from households with lower levels of caregiver education and children from minority ethnic communities.

Two thirds of children received extra tuition and this has increased between the cohorts. Children in urban areas, with the most educated caregivers, from the majority community and from the most wealthy households were the most likely to receive extra tuition. There are also marked differences between regions, but no difference between girls and boys. 

While most children answered a simple set of maths questions correctly, there are differences in performance across groups. Children from households with the highest levels of caregiver education and wealth levels as well as those in urban areas and children from majority backgrounds score the highest in this test. There was no difference between boys and girls. The younger cohort score slightly higher on this test than the older cohort with the highest gains among children from minority ethnic background, and children in households with lower levels of caregiver education narrowing gaps.

For further information, refer to the report on the <a href='http://www.younglives.org.uk/content/education-and-learning-preliminary-findings-round-4-vietnam' target='_blank'>Young Lives website</a>.
